21 ~ Fear


page 195:
It was always there; kneeling by Mabel on her prey, that the thoughts came, when I wondered how I could be doing this, how I could be hunting at all. I hate killing things. I'm loath to tread on spiders and get laughed at for rescuing flies. But now I understood for the first time what bloodthirstiness was all about. It was only when I was aligned with the hawk's eye that it made sense, but then it made more sense than anything else in the world. When I saw birds fly over­ head I'd turn my head and follow them with a kind of longing.
Hunting with the hawk took me to the very edge of being a human. Then it took me past that place to some­ where I wasn't human at all. The hawk in flight, me running after her, the land and the air a pattern of deep and curving detail, sufficient to block out anything like the past or the future, so that the only thing that mattered were the next thirty seconds. I felt the curt lift of autumn breeze over the hill's round brow, and the need to tack left, to fall over the leeward slope to where the rabbits were. I crept and walked and ran. I crouched. I looked. I saw more than I'd ever seen. The world gathered about me. It made absolute sense. But the only things I knew were hawkish things, and the lines that drew me across the landscape were the lines that drew the hawk: hunger, desire, fascination, the need to find and fly and kill.

page 196:
Yet every time the hawk caught an animal, it pulled me back from being an animal into being a human again. That was the great puzzle, and it was played out again and again. How hearts do stop. A rabbit prostrate in a pile of leaves, clutched in eight gripping talons, the hawk mantling her wings over it, tail spread, eyes burning, nape-feathers raised in a tense and feral crouch. And then I'd reach down and put my hand on the bunched muscles of the rabbit, and with the heel of one hand at the back of its head where the fur was soft and tawny, I'd pull once, twice, hard on its back legs with the other, breaking its neck. A fit of kicking, and the eyes filming over. I had to check the rabbit was dead by very gently touching its eye. Everything stopping. Stopping. Stop­ ping. I had to do this. If I didn't kill the rabbit, the hawk would sit on top of it and start eating; and at some point in the eating the rabbit would die. That is how goshawks kill. The borders between life and death are somewhere in the taking of their meal. I couldn't let that suffering happen. Hunting makes you animal, but the death of an animal makes you human. Kneeling next to the hawk and her prey, I felt a responsibility so huge that it battered inside my own chest, ballooning out into a space the size of a cathedral.
For years I'd explained that I'd rather eat hawk-caught food than things that have had a blind and crowded life in a barn or battery cage. One minute the rabbit is there, twitch­ ing its nose in a field that smells of nettles and grassy roots, then it is running, and then it is caught, and then it is dead. I'd told people that there are no injuries in hawking: either things are caught or they escape, and I'd told them, too, that nothing is wasted: everything the hawk catches is eaten by the hawk or me. If you choose to eat meat, I'd said, this is the best way I know to get it.
But these arguments seemed petty now, and pointless. They had nothing to do with what it was like. To be there, with a hawk and a caught rabbit that twitched and kicked

page 197:
and died. And the world biting into me. The serious, every­ thing puzzle that was death and going away. 'But how could you?' people asked. Someone said it was a way of destroying the world a piece at a time after my father's death. 'Were the rabbits you?' another asked. No. 'Were you killing yourself?' No. 'Were you sorry?' Yes. But the regret wasn't that I had killed an animal. It was regret for the animal. I felt sorry for it. Not because I felt I was better than the animal. It wasn't a patronizing sorrow. It was the sorrow of all deaths. I was happy for Mabel's success and I mourned the individual rabbit. Kneeling by its corpse I'd feel a sharp awareness of my edges. The rain prickling on my collar. A pain in one knee. The scratches on my legs and arms from pushing myself through a hedge that had not hurt until now. And a sharp, wordless comprehension of my own mortality. Yes, I will die. I learned that momentary shouldering of responsibility that allowed me to reach down and administer the coup de grace to a rabbit held tight in Mabel's feet. A part of me had to click into place and there was another part of me I had to put far away. There's no better phrase than the old one to describe it: You have to harden your heart. I learned that hardening the heart was not the same as not caring. The rabbit was always important. Its life was never taken lightly. I was accountable for these deaths. For the first time in my life I wasn't a watcher any more. I was being accountable to myself, to the world and all the things in it. But only when I killed. The days were very dark.

They darkened further. Driving back to the house one after­ noon I passed a huddle of walkers staring at a rabbit crouched in the grassy verge on the other side of the road. They were upset. Their shoulders were hunched in concern. I pulled in a little further up the road and waited. I did not want to talk to them, but their concern pulled at me. They knew the rabbit was sick and wanted to do something, but

page 198:
no one knew what that could be, and no one was brave enough to get near it. For minutes on end they stared at it, unable to intervene, unwilling to leave. Then they walked on. When they were gone I got out of the car and went up to the little lump of fur. It was a small rabbit. Its muscles were wasted, its head covered in tumours, its eyes swollen and blistered. It was matted with mud. It could not see. 'Oh rabbit,' I said. 'I'm so sorry.' Leaning down I hardened my heart and put it out of its misery.
The rabbit had myxomatosis. It arrived in Britain in r952 and in two years the virus—originally from South America, but already introduced by humans to Australia and Europe—killed ninety-five per cent of the British rabbit population. Tens of millions of rain-soaked corpses littered the roads and fields, and their disappearance had huge effects on the countryside: rabbit-grazed grasslands grew thick with scrub and predator populations crashed. Rabbits have recovered since, though never to the numbers that we once thought normal. And while the virus is less virulent now, outbreaks still occur.
That small rabbit sat huddled in my .rhind. It would not go away. It felt like a revenant, something pulled from the past, from back when I was small and the countryside was in cri­sis. It wasn't just the rabbits dying. Hawk populations were in freefall from agricultural pesticides. Skeletal elm trees were chopped down and burned. The otters were gone, riv­ers were poisoned, there were guillemots drowning in oiled seas. Everything was sick. And we'd be next. I knew it. All of us. I knew that one morning there'd be a siren, then a double flash of light on the horizon and I'd look up and see a distant mushroom cloud, and then, on the wind, the fallout would come. Invisible dust. And then everything would be dead. Or we'd go back to the Stone Age, and live in rags huddled around ruins and smoking fires. But even that slim dream of survival was dashed. 'Are we going to build a nuclear fallout


page 199:
shelter under the garden?' I asked my parents one afternoon after school. They looked at each other. Maybe they didn't understand, I thought, so I went on. 'In the leaflet it says we should build a shelter under the stairs and there's not very much room under ours for you and me and James.' There was a long pause, then they gently told me that our house was very close to several very important military targets. 'There's no point in worrying,' they said. 'There'll be no fallout. If there's a war, we won't even know about it. We'll be instantly vaporised.' This, needless to say, did not help at all. I scratched my name on bits of slate and buried them as deep as I could in the garden, under the earth. Maybe they'd sur­ vive the apocalypse.

The archaeology of grief is not ordered. It is more like earth under a spade, turning up things you had forgotten. Sur­prising things come to light: not simply memories, but states of mind, emotions, older ways of seeing the world. The ra b­ bit was a ghost from the apocalypse of my childhood, and later that week another appeared. This one was not a rab­bit, but a book. I had pulled it from my friend's shelves: a new edition of J. A. Baker's The Peregrine, the story of a man obsessively watching wintering wild peregrines in the Essex countryside of the late r96os. I'd not read it for years. I remembered it as a poetic celebration of nature. But as I started reading it I found it was not like that at all. This, I thought with a chill, comes from the same place as that rabbit. I saw in it the writer's awful desire for death and annihilation, a desire disguised as an elegy for birds that flew through poisonous skies, falcons as searing-bright and pewter-flashed as reflected sun, already things of memory before they were ever gone.
I was frightened of Baker and what he meant. I was not as frightened of White. Despite his disaster with Gos, despite his desire for cruelties and his dreadful politics, White fought

page 199:
hard against death. He loved the small things of the world, and knowing war was coming, he lived in hope of miracles. In Baker's book I saw no hope at all. For him the world was dying, and his hawks were icons of extinction: ours, theirs and his own. There was no struggle in him. He shared the falcons' fate; had no choice but to follow them. He was lured towards them just as the gulls and plovers in his book rose helplessly towards the peregrine's killing strike, just as the compass-beaks of all the small birds hiding in hedges pointed in fear towards the magnet that was the falcon in the air. There were no place names, no people in his book. They'd fallen away. I understood this better now, for I knew the pull of the hawk, and I knew how the world could disappear in the light it cast. But his hawks were made of death. Troubled, I hoped my hawk was life. I hoped it very much.
I'd never believed in Baker's falcons, because I'd met real ones before I'd ever read his book: cheerful, friendly falcon­er's birds that preened on suburban lawns. But most of my bird-loving friends read Baker's book before they ever saw a live one, and now they can't see real peregrines without them conjuring distance, extinction and death. Wild things are made from human histories. When I was a child I hated what White had thought of his goshawk. But Gos's hawkish ghost moved behind the patterned, living feathers of my own. And there were still darker ghosts behind him.
A few years ago I visited a friend who was at that time the president of the British Falconers' Club. We chatted over tea and biscuits. We talked about the history of falconry for a while, and the history of the Club, and then he said, 'Come and look at this.' And he pulled open a cupboard, and there, right at the back, half-obscured by the usual household bits and bobs, I saw it.
'Oh God,' I said. 'Gordon, is that it?'
He looked at me and nodded. 'I hate it,' he said. 'I can't bear to have it in the house.'

page 200:
I crouched down and pulled it out. It was a bronze falcon standing on a vertical plinth, heavy, stylised, and slightly worn around its wings.
'Shit, Gordon. This freaks me out,' I said. 'Me too,' he replied.
The statuette was very valuable, and very beautifully made, but it was a thing that both of us wished had never been made at all.
In 1937 Gilbert Blaine and Jack Mavrogordato were invited to the International Hunting Exhibition in Germany. They travelled to Berlin with a display of British falconry: stuffed falcons on perches, falconry equipment, photo­ graphs, books and paintings. I suspect their last-minute attendance was partly diplomatic cover: travelling with them was Britain's pro-appeasement Foreign Secretary, Lord Halifax, who'd been invited to the event for secret talks with Hitler.
There were no more than fifty falconers in the whole of Germany, but the symbolism of falconry was flourishing in the Reich. On the cover of the exhibition catalogue a styl­ised, naked Ubermensch held a golden hawk upon his fist. The national falconer's association, the Deutscher Falk­enorden, had been given state patronage, and a vast half-timbered State Falconry Centre, the Reichsfalkenhof, had recently been built in the forest at Riddagshausen. In Berlin Blaine and Mavrogordato walked through halls whose walls were hung thickly with thousands of antlers and draped in red banners sewn with swastikas. They admired the German hawks, falcons and eagles sitting on perches in the halls, but they were less impressed by the open-air falconry demonstrations. They watched a saker falcon catch a tethered pigeon, and an eagle thrown at a rabbit so tame it sat nibbling grass until the eagle landed.
Only two countries had falconry exhibits in the Berlin exhibition. Germany won first prize for theirs, and the British


page 202:
Falconers' Club came second. That bronze falcon I'd pulled from Gordon's cupboard was their award. It had been sent to the club after the exhibition by Hermann Goring. Goring: Hitler's right-hand man, commander-in-chief of the Luftwaffe, the Jagermeister of the Reich, the man who'd set the Reich­stag on fire. Falconry delighted him. It wasn't only that he considered it the Romantic sport of ancient Teutonic kings. Hawks themselves were a natural elite, the perfect naturalisa­ tion of Nazi ideology: living paragons of power and blood and violence that preyed guiltlessly on things weaker than them­ selves. Goring's portrait of his favourite hawk, a white gyrfalcon standing on a cliff, is utterly true to the conventions of Nazi portraiture: bathed in morning sunlight, its wings half open, the falcon stares coldly into the distance. And Goring had a trained goshawk, too: I had seen it stuffed and mounted on a branch in an American archive years before. It was a big goshawk in adult plumage, still wearing jesses and bells, its dry toes locked around a dusty branch. It was beautifully mounted. Someone had taken very good care to make it look alive. I stared into its glass eyes, chilled to the bone, and wondered if it was related to Gos. There was every chance that it was a cousin of White's hawk, for the man who'd painted Goring's gyrfalcon, the man who headed the Deutscher Falkenorden, who had arranged falconry's state patronage and designed the Reichsfalkenhof, was Renz Waller. And he was the man who'd sent White Gos; the man to whom White had written pleading for another hawk. And who wrote back to him a few weeks later saying he would certainly try to 'get for you a other pas­sager Gos'.

A new hawk! Full of excitement, White uncapped his pen and wrote Plan for a Passage Gos on the inside cover of his new copy of Bert's Treatise. He mapped out detailed training plans, and they rang with new authority. 'Watch her that night, keeping her constantly in motion,' he wrote. 'Have an

page 203:
assistant to take turns at this.' But the new hawk was not to be. The day before it was due to arrive White was rushed to hospital with appendicitis - as if his body was rebelling against the prospect of another weary battle. The thought of the surgeon's knife was a terror to him. 'It made me feel cleaner in some obscure way,' he wrote to John Moore after the operation. 'I think I am brave and master of my soul after all.' He had survived the crisis, and returned to his cot­tage. For a while he courted the night nurse, Stella, who had tended him at the hospital - but he thought her a wholly alien creature, and when he saw she might truly want him, he spurned her cruelly.
The winter was long and dark. There was something mythical about its slow progression from snow to thaw, to snow again, to mud and misery and sickness, as if in living through it, he was passing through many ages. Hope returned with spring. He filled the house with orphans: squab pigeons and doves, a tawny owl called Archimedes and a pair of baby badgers. Then in April White drove to Croydon to pick up a new hawk. He called her Cully. She was in a dreadful state. On being trapped half her tail feathers had broken off, along with most of the primaries on her left wing. White frowned over diagrams in falconry books, cut buzzard feath­ers to size, and glued and sewed these replacements into the trimmed quills of her wings and tail. Imping, they called it: he knew it was one of the falconers' Great Arts. But it was a bad job, the fixing, and all the bating in her eight weeks of training left her tail-less, part-winged, barely able to fly.
But fly she did. The hawk flew free. Heart in mouth, he flew her free. Finally he would hunt with a hawk he had trained himself. His dazzling dreams of self-sufficiency, his dreams of innocent cruelty: both were within his reach. But it was getting late in the season, and he knew that Cully should be put down to moult. Hawks shed and replace all their feathers once every year, and during this time they are




page 204:
not flown, but loosed in a spacious enclosure and fed ad libitum. But he needed this one success. And one evening out on the Ridings, after days of fruitless stalking, he loosed his tattered hawk at a rabbit on Tofield's Riding and after a hapless, ragged flight—at one point running after the rabbit, rather than flying—Cully grabbed it by the head. White rushed to the scene, took his hunting knife and pinned the rabbit's skull to the ground. Desires that had never flowered in his courting of the nurse were unleashed in a wave of darkness. 'Think of Lust,' he wrote, of killing the rabbit. 'Real blood-lust is like that.'




READERS’ REPORT: [names here, please]

Passage Length: 600 to 800 words



[paste passage here]






Complexity ~ The passage is built upon (enacts, or dramatizes) a central tension, contrast, conceptual opposition, or duality.









Rewards Close Reading: Thematically

What cluster of key ideas animate this passage?










Rewards Close Reading ~ Structurally & Stylistically

How are the passage’s key ideas embodied in the passage’s style and structure? What key literary-technical devices or verbal moves does Macdonald employ in the passage, and what expressive purpose do they serve? How would you characterize the passage’s structural movement from part to part? (Beginning, middle, end—or first half, second half.) How has Macdonald used the resources of language and literary form to amplify meaning(s) in the passage?













Significant tie-ins to other parts of the text? Short list of brief quotations, including chapter number, title, and page number.
